INSTALL.md, before:

# elastio-snap INSTALL

## From Repositories
Elastio Software Inc. provides repositories for x86_64 editions of the RHEL/CentOS starting from the version 7, Amazon Linux 2, Fedora 31 and newer, Debian 8 and newer, and Ubuntu LTS starting from the version 16.04.
We recommend that you install the kernel module from Elastio's repositories.

### Repository package installation for RPM-based systems

#### RHEL/CentOS
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for CentOS/RHEL 7 and newer.

```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/CentOS/$(rpm -E %rhel)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.el$(rpm -E %rhel).noarch.rpm
```

#### Amazon Linux
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Amazon Linux 2.

```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/Amazon/$(rpm -E %amzn)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.amzn$(rpm -E %amzn).noarch.rpm
```

#### Fedora
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Fedora 31 and newer.
```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/Fedora/$(rpm -E %fedora)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.fc$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
```

### Elastio Snap installation

We are ready to install Elastio Snap packages after the repository package has been installed. If you did `yum update` and your system is running the newest kernel available for `yum`, here we go:

```bash
sudo yum install dkms-elastio-snap elastio-snap-utils
```

***NOTE!!!*** **This is exactly the case for *Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance* and may apply to other RPM based systems!**  
If your machine is running **NOT** the most recent Linux kernel availeble by yum. And you aren't going to do `yum update` and **reboot** machine to the fresh kernel before Elastio Snap installation. Or you are just not sure about freshness of the kernel. Please install `kernel-devel-$(uname -r)` package in addition to the `dkms-elastio-snap` package. If you are going to update packages and kernel some time later, then add both `kernel-devel-$(uname -r)` for the current kernel and `kernel-devel` for all newer kernels. Proceed with the installation of Elastio Snap using this command instead of the previous example:

```bash
sudo yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r) kernel-devel dkms-elastio-snap elastio-snap-utils
```
...  
<sup>For more details about this installation behavior please see issues [#12](https://github.com/elastio/elastio-snap/issues/12) and [#55](https://github.com/elastio/elastio-snap/issues/55) and comments there.</sup>

### Repository package installation for DEB-based systems

#### Debian / Ubuntu LTS
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Debian 8 (jessie) and newer.
The same packages are applicable for Ubuntu LTS starting from 16.04 (xenial) and newer.
```bash
# Install prerequisites. This is not necessary in the most cases except pure docker.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install wget gnupg

# Detect Debian version
debian_ver=$(grep VERSION_ID /etc/os-release | tr -cd [0-9])

# Ubuntu? 
[ $debian_ver > 1000 ] && debian_ver=$(($debian_ver/200))
# Download repo package and install it
wget https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/deb/Debian/${debian_ver}/pool/elastio-repo_0.0.2-1debian${debian_ver}_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i elastio-repo_0.0.2-1debian${debian_ver}_all.deb
sudo apt-get update
```

### Elastio Snap installation

We are ready to install Elastio Snap packages after the repository package has been installed:

```bash
# Install Elastio Snap
sudo apt-get install elastio-snap-dkms elastio-snap-utils
```

These packages will install and configure the kernel module to start during the boot process. No further configuration should be required when installing using this method.

## From Source

### Dependencies

Note that this build process, while it _should_ work with any distribution, has only been tested with the distributions below. The lowest supported kernel is 2.6.18.

#### Debian/Ubuntu
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential
```

#### RHEL/CentOS/Fedora
```
sudo yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r)
sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools"
```

#### openSUSE/SLE
```
sudo zypper install kernel-default-devel
sudo zypper install -t pattern devel_C_C++
```

### Getting, Building, and Installing
To retrieve the sources from our Git repository, clone the Git repository to your local computer.

`cd` into the directory created by git, and then run the following commands:
```bash
sudo make
sudo make install
```

### Configuring the Kernel Module
To start the kernel module immediately, run:
```bash
sudo modprobe elastio-snap
```

If you would like to have the module be loaded automatically during boot, consult the documentation for your distribution.

### Troubleshooting
On some systems, it may be necessary to let the system know of the location of the shared libraries. If you are having trouble getting `elioctl` to run, run these two commands:
```
echo /usr/local/{lib,lib64} | sed 's/ /\n/g' | sudo tee /etc/ld.so.conf.d/elastio-snap.conf
sudo ldconfig
```

### Usage
The kernel module is primarily controlled through `elioctl(8)`, which was installed previously. For usage instructions, see [elioctl.8.md](doc/elioctl.8.md).

Commit message:

Add info about `aarch64` support into INSTALL.md

INSTALL.md, after:

# elastio-snap INSTALL

## From Repositories
Elastio Software Inc. provides repositories for the RHEL/CentOS starting from the version 7, Amazon Linux 2, Fedora 31 and newer, Debian 8 and newer, and Ubuntu LTS starting from the version 16.04.  
We recommend that you install the kernel module from Elastio's repositories.  

Elastio provides repositories for the following Linux distributions and architectures:  

|             Distro Name            |  Distro Ver | x86_64 | aarch64 |
|:----------------------------------:|------------:|:------:|:-------:|
| RHEL/CentOS                        |           7 | +      | -       |
| RHEL/CentOS/Alma Linux/Rocky Linux |           8 | +      | +       |
| Amazon Linux                       |           2 | +      | +       |
| Fedora                             |       31-34 | +      | -       |
|                                    |       35-36 | +      | +       |
| Debian                             |         8-9 | +      | -       |
|                                    |       10-11 | +      | +       |
| Ubuntu                             | 16.04-18.04 | +      | -       |
|                                    | 20.04-22.04 | +      | +       |

### Repository package installation for RPM-based systems

#### RHEL/CentOS
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for CentOS/RHEL 7 and newer.

```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/CentOS/$(rpm -E %rhel)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.el$(rpm -E %rhel).noarch.rpm
```

#### Amazon Linux
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Amazon Linux 2.

```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/Amazon/$(rpm -E %amzn)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.amzn$(rpm -E %amzn).noarch.rpm
```

#### Fedora
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Fedora 31 and newer.
```bash
# Install repo package
sudo yum localinstall https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/rpm/Fedora/$(rpm -E %fedora)/noarch/Packages/elastio-repo-0.0.2-1.fc$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
```

### Elastio Snap installation

We are ready to install Elastio Snap packages after the repository package has been installed. If you did `yum update` and your system is running the newest kernel available for `yum`, here we go:

```bash
sudo yum install dkms-elastio-snap elastio-snap-utils
```

***NOTE!!!*** **This is exactly the case for *Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance* and may apply to other RPM based systems!**  
If your machine is running **NOT** the most recent Linux kernel availeble by yum. And you aren't going to do `yum update` and **reboot** machine to the fresh kernel before Elastio Snap installation. Or you are just not sure about freshness of the kernel. Please install `kernel-devel-$(uname -r)` package in addition to the `dkms-elastio-snap` package. If you are going to update packages and kernel some time later, then add both `kernel-devel-$(uname -r)` for the current kernel and `kernel-devel` for all newer kernels. Proceed with the installation of Elastio Snap using this command instead of the previous example:

```bash
sudo yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r) kernel-devel dkms-elastio-snap elastio-snap-utils
```
...  
<sup>For more details about this installation behavior please see issues [#12](https://github.com/elastio/elastio-snap/issues/12) and [#55](https://github.com/elastio/elastio-snap/issues/55) and comments there.</sup>

### Repository package installation for DEB-based systems

#### Debian 8 - 11 / Ubuntu 16.04 - 21.10
The repository install package `elastio-repo` is available for Debian 8 (jessie) and newer.
The same packages are applicable for Ubuntu starting from 16.04 (xenial) and newer.
```bash
# Install prerequisites. This is not necessary in the most cases except pure docker.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install wget gnupg

# Detect Debian version
debian_ver=$(grep VERSION_ID /etc/os-release | tr -cd [0-9])

# Ubuntu? 
[ $debian_ver > 1000 ] && debian_ver=$(($debian_ver/200))
# Download repo package and install it
wget https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/deb/Debian/${debian_ver}/pool/elastio-repo_0.0.2-1debian${debian_ver}_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i elastio-repo_0.0.2-1debian${debian_ver}_all.deb
sudo apt-get update
```
#### Ubuntu 22.04
The `elastio-repo` repository package is available for Ubuntu 22.04. This is a separate package for a separate repository, and not the same as for Debian 11, as it was for older versions of Debian/Ubuntu.
```bash
# Install prerequisites. This is not necessary in the most cases except pure docker.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install wget gnupg

# Download repo package and install it
wget https://repo.assur.io/master/linux/deb/Ubuntu/2204/pool/elastio-repo_0.0.2-1ubuntu22.04_all.deb
sudo dpkg -i elastio-repo_0.0.2-1ubuntu22.04_all.deb
sudo apt-get update
```

### Elastio Snap installation

We are ready to install Elastio Snap packages after the repository package has been installed:

```bash
# Install Elastio Snap
sudo apt-get install elastio-snap-dkms elastio-snap-utils
```

These packages will install and configure the kernel module to start during the boot process. No further configuration should be required when installing using this method.

## From Source

### Dependencies

Note that this build process, while it _should_ work with any distribution, has only been tested with the distributions below. The lowest supported kernel is 2.6.18.

#### Debian/Ubuntu
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential
```

#### RHEL/CentOS/Fedora
```
sudo yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r)
sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools"
```

#### openSUSE/SLE
```
sudo zypper install kernel-default-devel
sudo zypper install -t pattern devel_C_C++
```

### Getting, Building, and Installing
To retrieve the sources from our Git repository, clone the Git repository to your local computer.

`cd` into the directory created by git, and then run the following commands:
```bash
sudo make
sudo make install
```

### Configuring the Kernel Module
To start the kernel module immediately, run:
```bash
sudo modprobe elastio-snap
```

If you would like to have the module be loaded automatically during boot, consult the documentation for your distribution.

### Troubleshooting
On some systems, it may be necessary to let the system know of the location of the shared libraries. If you are having trouble getting `elioctl` to run, run these two commands:
```
echo /usr/local/{lib,lib64} | sed 's/ /\n/g' | sudo tee /etc/ld.so.conf.d/elastio-snap.conf
sudo ldconfig
```

### Usage
The kernel module is primarily controlled through `elioctl(8)`, which was installed previously. For usage instructions, see [elioctl.8.md](doc/elioctl.8.md).
