LICENSING.md, before:

# assurio-snap License Terms

assurio-snap is a kernel module for taking block-level snapshots and incremental backups of Linux block devices

Copyright © 2015 Datto, Inc.
Additional contributions by Assurio Software, Inc are Copyright (C) 2019 Assurio Software Inc.

## assurio-snap kernel module and userspace applications

assurio-snap is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, under version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## libassurio-snap userspace library

libassurio-snap is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Rename Assurio to Elastio
Renamed source files *assurio* to *elastio*;
Renamed assurio-snap to elastio-snap;
Renamed libassurio-snap to libelastio-snap;
Renamed aioctl to elioctl.

Replaced Github Org assuriosw with elastio;
Replaced Assurio Software Inc with Elastio Software Inc;
Updated Assurio Copyright (C) 2019 to the Elastio Copyright (C) 2020.

LICENSING.md, after:

# elastio-snap License Terms

elastio-snap is a kernel module for taking block-level snapshots and incremental backups of Linux block devices

Copyright © 2015 Datto, Inc.
Additional contributions by Elastio Software, Inc are Copyright (C) 2020 Elastio Software Inc.

## elastio-snap kernel module and userspace applications

elastio-snap is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, under version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## libelastio-snap userspace library

libelastio-snap is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
